CS201 ASSIGNMENT 2 INSTRUCTIONS
-------------------------------

Remember that you only need to do one of the assignments below.

In each of these assignments, you will be asked to write a "math library"
function. You will be writing the function in assembly language, using gcc's
inline assembler. Class code files asm.c and cpuid.c are good models for how to
write assembly code for gcc.

You can use a mixture of C code and assembly code for these assignments, but all
floating point calculations (including comparisons) must be done in assembly
language. You should use C only for support tasks like defining and initializing
local variables, returning a value from the function, etc.

Your assembly code should work in the following way:

    1. Load values from the function's arguments and local variables onto the
        floating point stack (local variables can be initialized first by C code
        as long as no calculations are performed).
    2. Perform the required calculation entirely within the floating point
        stack. Using stack comments in this code will help you keep track of
        what's going on. (A stack comment is a comment that specifies what is
        supposed to be on the floating point stack after that instruction has
        executed. Or you can write stack comments to specify the situation
        before the instruction executes if you prefer.)
    3. Store the calculated result from the floating point stack to a local
        variable
    4. Return that the value of that local variable with a C 'return' statement.

The IA-32 Architecture includes the floating point instructions needed to
implement these functions (they all start with the letter 'F'). You will save
yourself a lot of work if you carefully choose the right instructions. This is a
large and powerful instruction set, and you should make use of that power
instead of "re-inventing the wheel." In other words, don't spend a lot of time
writing a lot of dumb code. Instead, spend your time thinking first, and you
will be able to write a smaller amount of smart code.

In your assembly code, you are required to use only the syntax demonstrated in
course file objectCode/asm.c. You are not allowed to use any other GAS syntax,
such as %0, or any specifier other than "=m" in an "output" or "m" in an
"input."

       **********************************************************
       * THE USE OF ANY PROHIBITED SYNTAX IN YOUR ASSEMBLY CODE *
       *     WILL RESULT IN A SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF POINTS.       *
       **********************************************************

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REGULAR VERSION

In hullSpeed(), write FPU assembly code to calculate the "hull speed" of a boat
according to the formula 1.34*sqrt(lgth) where lgth is the length in feet of the
boat at the waterline, and the computed speed is specified in knots.

Start with the provided code file a02.c. Upload your code as a02.c.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PREMIUM VERSION

This assignment includes all of the work from the Regular version plus this
additional task:

In the function named roundD write assembly code that rounds its first argument
to an integer value according to the rounding mode specified by its second
argument. The function prototype is:

    double roundD(double n, RoundingMode roundingMode);

RoundingMode is defined in the starter code.

You will need to set the Rounding Control field of the FPU Control Word in
accordance with the roundingMode argument. You need to do this with assembly
code -- do not use library functions.

You will also need to restore the original value of the FPU's Rounding Control
field before roundD returns. Do not use finit or fninit for this. The original
value is whatever the value was when roundD was called, which could have been
set by the calling function to some arbitrary value, not necessarily what finit
produces.

Start with the provided code file a02p.c. Upload your code as a02p.c.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOW TO COMPILE THE CODE FOR ASSIGNMENT 2

Because the code for both versions of this assignment calls the sqrt() function
from math.h, you will need to compile it as follows:

    gcc <required flags> a02p.c -lm -o a02p

You can use file ~michael.trigoboff/bin/gclm to avoid having to type this.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REQUIRED PLATFORM

I grade your code on syccuxas01.pcc.edu. Your code is required to compile and
run correctly on that machine.

COMPILING YOUR CODE

You are required to compile your code with the same flags that are used by
the 'gc' bash script in ~michael.trigoboff/bin.

GRADING YOUR CODE

Your code needs to compile without errors or warnings and run correctly. Code
that does not compile will receive zero points. Code that crashes will receive
zero points.

I use bash scripts to grade your code. Because of this, it is very important
that you submit your code with the file name that was requested. If you change
the file name, my scripts will crash, your work will not be graded, you will
have to resubmit a corrected version of your work, and you will lose points.

My scripts produce a log file containing your code, compiler warnings and errors
(if any), your code's output, and some statistics that are useful to me. I then
personally go through that log file to produce your grade. In other words, the
scripts don't generate your grade, they just make it more convenient for me to
generate your grade.

TO SUBMIT THIS ASSIGNMENT

Submit the requested file to Desire2Learn.

    * Be certain to check that you completed the upload successfully. After you
        click the Upload File button, you must also click the SUBMIT ASSIGNMENT
        button. This is very easy to forget. If you do not do this, I will not
        see your work and you will get a grade of zero for the assignment. I
        would recommend entering an email address so you can be notified that
        the upload was completed successfully.
    * You may upload as many versions as you wish prior to the due date. I will
        only see and grade the final one. You will not be able to upload
        assignments after the due date.

Points will be deducted for uploading a file with a name that is not as
specified. Every term I get a few students whose approach to following
directions is, shall we say, "creative." I encourage creativity in general, but
there are places where it is not appropriate.

